Final Project
================
Dea Oviedo
2022-12-13

Introduction

In 2012, the Senegalese government released a 2012-2015 National Family
Planning Action Plan, wherein it set ambitious goals to increase its
contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) in order to meet its health and
development objectives. It identified challenges to uptake related to
contraceptive availability– namely, high stock-out rates and problems
with products reaching service delivery points (SDP).1 One key strategy
to address these challenges was the Informed Push Model (IPM), a supply
chain model where third-party logisticians were contracted to deliver
family planning supplies to SDPs directly from regional storerooms,
effectively by-passing district storerooms. During monthly visits to
SDPs, third-party logisticians performed a stock inventory, topped off
contraceptive stocks, and collected data to forecast future delivery
quantities. After the intervention pilot in Dakar in 2012 nearly
eliminated stockouts, the Senegalese government expanded the IPM across
different districts over a 3-year period before scaling up the
intervention at a national level with the help of implementation partner
IntraHealth International and with funding from the Gates Foundation and
MSD for Mothers.2

Studies have evaluated the impact of the IPM rollout on contraceptive
stockout rates and their duration, finding that it resulted in an
increase in the availability of contraceptive methods in health
facilities and a decrease in the duration of stockouts for intrauterine
devices (IUDs) and implants.3 However, there is limited evidence on the
impact of the IPM on contraceptive use. One unpublished presentation
outlined that there was no impact on the national modern CPR.4 This
study aims to fill the gaps in the literature by assessing the impact of
the IPM on district-level modern contraceptive use among postpartum
women, an important beneficiary group of family planning policies and
programs given the benefits of increased birth intervals on the health
of mothers and their babies.

The Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) collects information on women’s
reproductive history through its contraceptive calendar. The
contraceptive calendar is a string variable containing 80 characters
(with each character representing a month), and is a retrospective
account recording births, pregnancies, terminations, and contraceptive
use over the 80 months preceding the survey. This information can be
used to determine whether, at any given month before the survey, a
respondent was within the first postpartum year, and whether she was
using a modern method of contraception. Data from Senegal’s 2014, 2015
and 2016 Continuous DHS were obtained. The study sample includes women
ages 15-49 who have given birth in the 5 years preceding the survey.

Introduce (in words) the dataset and question (5 pts) 1-2 key plots or
tables illustrating your exploratory data analysis (10 pts) Description
and justification of the methodology you will use in your analysis (10
pts)

\#Results (1 - 2.5 pages of text, 50 pts): The text in the results
should guide the reader through your analysis and describe what each
plot or table is showing, and how it relates to the central question you
are trying to ask. Feel free to reiterate key concepts of the
methodology and how they help analyze the question or topic.

Explanation of why your extensive web scraping or wrangling was
necessary (5 pts) Two tables showing relevant parts of the dataset 1)
before and 2) after (10 pts) 3+ key plots or tables illustrating your
major analysis (35 pts)

\#Conclusion (.5 pages of text, 15 pts): Summary of your question,
methods and results Additional topics can include: Was your analysis
successful? Why or why not? What would you do if you had more time?

\#References (does not count towards page limit; at the minimum,
reference the source of data)

\#Appendix (does not count towards page limit, 5 pts) All figures/tables
and code
